README.md, before:

# F1 Race Replay 🏎️ 🏁

A Python application for visualizing Formula 1 race telemetry and replaying race events with interactive controls and a graphical interface.

![Race Replay Preview](./resources/preview.png)

## Features

- **Race Replay Visualization:** Watch the race unfold with real-time driver positions on a rendered track.
- **Leaderboard:** See live driver positions and current tyre compounds.
- **Lap & Time Display:** Track the current lap and total race time.
- **Driver Status:** Drivers who retire or go out are marked as "OUT" on the leaderboard.
- **Interactive Controls:** Pause, rewind, fast forward, and adjust playback speed using on-screen buttons or keyboard shortcuts.
- **Legend:** On-screen legend explains all controls.
- **Driver Telemetry Insights:** View speed, gear, DRS status, and current lap for selected drivers when selected on the leaderboard.

## Controls

- **Pause/Resume:** SPACE or Pause button
- **Rewind/Fast Forward:** ← / → or Rewind/Fast Forward buttons
- **Playback Speed:** ↑ / ↓ or Speed button (cycles through 0.5x, 1x, 2x, 4x)
- **Set Speed Directly:** Keys 1–4

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+ (Python 3.14 not yet supported due to pymunk wheel compatibility)
- [FastF1](https://github.com/theOehrly/Fast-F1)
- [Arcade](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/)
- numpy, pandas, matplotlib

Install dependencies:
```bash
# Create a virtual environment (recommended)
python -m venv .venv

# Activate the virtual environment
# On Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
# On macOS/Linux:
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

FastF1 cache folder will be created automatically on first run. If it is not created, you can manually create a folder named `.fastf1-cache` in the project root.

## Quick Start

### Windows Users (Easy Method)
1. **Clone this repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/IsaevNurislam/f1.git
   cd f1
   ```

2. **Run setup (first time only):**
   ```bash
   setup.bat
   ```

3. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   run.bat
   ```

### Manual Setup (All Platforms)

Run the main script and specify the year and round:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12
```

The application will load a pre-computed telemetry dataset if you have run it before for the same event. To force re-computation of telemetry data, use the `--refresh-data` flag:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12 --refresh-data
```

## File Structure

- `main.py` — Entry point, handles session loading and starts the replay.
- `src/lib/tyres.py` — Type definitions for telemetry data structures.
- `src/f1_data.py` — Telemetry loading, processing, and frame generation.
- `src/arcade_replay.py` — Visualization and UI logic.

## Customization

- Change track width, colors, and UI layout in `src/arcade_replay.py`.
- Adjust telemetry processing in `src/f1_data.py`.

## Contributing

- Open pull requests for UI improvements or new features.
- Report issues on GitHub.

# Known Issues

- Occasional telemetry data gaps cause accuracy issues with the leaderboard

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

No copyright infringement intended. Formula 1 and related trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All data used is sourced from publicly available APIs and is used for educational and non-commercial purposes only.

---

Built with ❤️ by [Tom Shaw](https://tomshaw.dev)

Commit message:

Add live demo link to README

README.md, after:

# F1 Race Replay 🏎️ 🏁

A Python application for visualizing Formula 1 race telemetry and replaying race events with interactive controls and a graphical interface.

![Race Replay Preview](./resources/preview.png)

## Features

- **Race Replay Visualization:** Watch the race unfold with real-time driver positions on a rendered track.
- **Leaderboard:** See live driver positions and current tyre compounds.
- **Lap & Time Display:** Track the current lap and total race time.
- **Driver Status:** Drivers who retire or go out are marked as "OUT" on the leaderboard.
- **Interactive Controls:** Pause, rewind, fast forward, and adjust playback speed using on-screen buttons or keyboard shortcuts.
- **Legend:** On-screen legend explains all controls.
- **Driver Telemetry Insights:** View speed, gear, DRS status, and current lap for selected drivers when selected on the leaderboard.

## Controls

- **Pause/Resume:** SPACE or Pause button
- **Rewind/Fast Forward:** ← / → or Rewind/Fast Forward buttons
- **Playback Speed:** ↑ / ↓ or Speed button (cycles through 0.5x, 1x, 2x, 4x)
- **Set Speed Directly:** Keys 1–4

## Requirements

- Python 3.11+ (Python 3.14 not yet supported due to pymunk wheel compatibility)
- [FastF1](https://github.com/theOehrly/Fast-F1)
- [Arcade](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/)
- numpy, pandas, matplotlib

Install dependencies:
```bash
# Create a virtual environment (recommended)
python -m venv .venv

# Activate the virtual environment
# On Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
# On macOS/Linux:
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

FastF1 cache folder will be created automatically on first run. If it is not created, you can manually create a folder named `.fastf1-cache` in the project root.

## 🌐 Live Demo

**[View Interactive Web Demo](https://isaevnurislam.github.io/f1/)**

Click the link above to see the race replay in your browser - no installation required!

## Quick Start

### Windows Users (Easy Method)
1. **Clone this repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/IsaevNurislam/f1.git
   cd f1
   ```

2. **Run setup (first time only):**
   ```bash
   setup.bat
   ```

3. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   run.bat
   ```

### Manual Setup (All Platforms)

Run the main script and specify the year and round:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12
```

The application will load a pre-computed telemetry dataset if you have run it before for the same event. To force re-computation of telemetry data, use the `--refresh-data` flag:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12 --refresh-data
```

## File Structure

- `main.py` — Entry point, handles session loading and starts the replay.
- `src/lib/tyres.py` — Type definitions for telemetry data structures.
- `src/f1_data.py` — Telemetry loading, processing, and frame generation.
- `src/arcade_replay.py` — Visualization and UI logic.

## Customization

- Change track width, colors, and UI layout in `src/arcade_replay.py`.
- Adjust telemetry processing in `src/f1_data.py`.

## Contributing

- Open pull requests for UI improvements or new features.
- Report issues on GitHub.

# Known Issues

- Occasional telemetry data gaps cause accuracy issues with the leaderboard

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

No copyright infringement intended. Formula 1 and related trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All data used is sourced from publicly available APIs and is used for educational and non-commercial purposes only.

---

Built with ❤️ by [Tom Shaw](https://tomshaw.dev)
